Welcome to slow in and out in this lecture.
We're going to explore how we can make our animations have a more natural feel to them rather than a
robotic feel.
And that can be done by changing how many frames we put at the beginning and end of an animation to
make the movement feel more natural and convincing to the watcher.
Now when it comes to any form of animation making something look like it's supposed to and a natural
movement rather than a robotic movement is done through the mere method of slow ins and outs.
If we go ahead and look at a given time frame.
In two different aspects.
The top one here.
If we divide it up completely evenly we'll end up with about nine different slots.
Think one two three four five six seven eight nine or rather eight if you count this one is your starting
frame and this one is your ending frame.
And these are relatively evenly spaced.
So in the instance of a ball moving along it won't move quite smoothly across.
And if we took my drawing literally it would judder a little here because the spacing is.
Even so you do have to watch out for um even spacing because it can give a jittery effect to your animation.
Whilst that may be desirable under certain circumstances unless you're doing it deliberately trying
to keep things evenly space and there's another uneven spacing here.
If we have a look at easing our our ball in this case in an outer we do exactly the same thing where
we start dividing things up but we divide them up evenly.
We get this sort of effect and what will happen is would start off the ball here.
And even though it seems a bit counterintuitive saying these are evenly spaced but there is a consistency
to the spacing.
So what we'll see is it will move slowly here and then pick up speed and then slow back down again towards
the end.
Another way of looking at this is motion over time.
And so in the instance of let's say dropping a ball it doesn't move much for a bit and then it moves
suddenly until it hits the ground and then it might do this and settle down.
Now with a ball being fired out of a cannon it may suddenly start quick and then slow down and then
pick up speed again as it goes.
If we imagine it being fired upwards it will go up and slow down and then it might pick up speed again
as it tumbles back down towards the ground.
So you can end up with different graphs like this but the important thing is it's never ever a straight
line like that unless it's a robot or something robotic or mechanical that would naturally be like that.
Most things in nature are not whether it's an inanimate object falling off of a shelf or whether it's
a character moving.
There's always a slow in and slow out.
And yes you can exaggerate it if you'd like to really give the right appearance and with the adding
of squash and stretch when something is going really quick.
These can all compound to make a very convincing animation.
The important thing is to use it naturally and sensibly.
And for instance if I just clear this down for a second soak up my chart back a rockets being launched.
It takes ages to get going and then it just moves quicker and quicker and quicker and quicker over time.
So that's one example of something that just speeds up.
You get some things that speed up and slow down like a like a bullet being fired out of a gun.
A You have some things that's starts slow speed up and slow back down again like a ball dropping off
of a shelf.
And then finally is if something is launched going upwards it starts really quick slows back down and
then its motion increases speed again as it falls back down towards the ground.
So let's see now how this applies when were over in guimpe.
Now there are two ways of doing this you can adjust the frame timing or you can adjust the position
of an object over time.
So they're both the so two sides of the same coin.
However you do have to bear in mind the consequences of doing one might mean if your ex sporting this
to another package afterwards the frame timing adjustments may not take effect elsewhere.
So in order to do this I'm going to create myself a new image and I'm going to make this a hundred.
Now I would make the 64 width by 128 right.
That's fine a minute to set the size of my ball at 10.
I'm going to use a ball again for this example.
And there it is.
So if we wanted a robotic ball moving from A to B we could literally evenly space it as it goes down
in each frame.
It will look well like like the ball is moving at a constant speed.
And that's kind of how robots move about.
If you've ever seen someone dance using that dance the robots they're very stiff they suddenly come
to a stop and they suddenly start again without any extra sort of momentum to get going.
Unfortunately most things in life do not do that so we go and play back this animation which I haven't
gotten so that won't work Silly me but it will just go through and it will be really smooth.
What we really want is then to be a bit more space the part.
Now you can do the same thing by creating a series of layers and moving them about there.
Let's go ahead and have a blank background let's add a background again.
So back ground and make it whites who've got something that really makes that black blob stand out and
going to create a new transparent background.
Go and put the ball on it and then go to layer and auto crop the layer.
So now I've got a tiny ball that I can move about very easily.
So for the moment let's just get these nine or 10 balls on the screen that we need someone to duplicate
the layer and with the move tool set on the move.
The active layer.
So I definitely know I'm moving the next layer down I'm going to evenly space a series of.
In this case dots or balls down are seen and then what we can do is adjust the frame timing.
Now ultimately the results are you get out at the end will be similar but will also be different at
the same time you do get a slightly different effect if you're adjusting the frame timing opposed to
the actual position over time.
So there we go we've got all of our dots out now what we could do at this point is the first one we
could declare that it's a slow mover so we could go to who on the end of it we could go 200 milliseconds.
And then the next one slightly faster we could might go one seventy five and then slightly faster again
one to five slightly faster again etc etc. and then slow you back down again.
That is one way of doing it.
The issue with doing it that way even though you get roughly the same outputs is you would have to recreate
that.
If you were then going use these individual frames in another package.
Now that may or may not be possible depending on where you're sending your animation out to end.
Either way you've still got to reconstruct it.
The other other end.
And what would be far better especially if the person the other end is just expecting a file that works
for them and they don't have to do any fiddling about is to adjust its position depending on the time.
So in this case we go back to the very beginning I'm going to remove that specification that's to much
milliseconds and thinking about what we saw earlier if we wanted it and then see what happens at the
moment now not put replace on the end of these so it would just build up on this play act.
So go ahead and press play and it's either dead or dead in that order.
It just rattles down in a very linear fashion.
That's fine if something is going past at a constant velocity or as I mentioned before if it's a robot's
moving that's also fine but if it's something natural it is important that the motion is eased in and
out so we can go ahead to background too.
And in this case move it up servais overlap almost well almost half half.
In that case then we can go and grab this one and shift up a little maybe So just touching background
for we can have that gap.
Background five an even bigger gap.
Now this is where I can start getting a little bit confusing as we're going to start putting ones on
top of one another.
Which is why it's important to have the move tool or move the active layer so we don't get confused.
And this can go all the way down.
Yes that's an even bigger gap.
Let's put it all the way here and have that as our midpoints.
Now we might actually be over the number of pixels for the midpoint but that doesn't matter.
Now we go to the next one and we try and make it roughly the same matching point here which I think
is about.
There and then we go to background 7 and shift that answers one apart.
Background 8 shift that down.
Now I've lost track of where I am.
I'm going to not use all of these some just going to do a few deletes and I can always duplicate again
afterwards.
Now you may get an error message like this come up.
And if that comes up well that usually means that you've got the animation already running somewhere
and it's trying to use something and you've just deleted.
In this case I'm just going to go through and tidy up a background Several was the one I've just done
so I'm going to go to my undo history the little yellow backwards icon at the top and just add that
back in and let's see what's happening here we've got a big gap here.
This next gap is not big enough but I'm also kind of running out of space a Perhaps it's slowing down
creak of an accelerated.
That's absolutely fine.
I go back to my layers window here and duplicate again and have it's almost on top.
And then finally down here it comes to a stop.
Now if we go ahead and play that back it will look ever was a slightly different because of the spacing
build look like it increases speed and slows back down again.
And that is what were aiming for.
Whenever we do any animation with the exception of robotics and it's that time again it's time for a
challenge.
Let's go make something a bit more interesting then a bouncing ball.
We're going to go for a portcullis.
If youre not sure one of those is thats that Gates that comes down on a castle to stop you going in
spikey Gates.
I will pull up a quick picture.
And here we go.
Here are a couple of images of portcullises.
Of course you can do it in any style you want and I would suggest perhaps creating the the arch way
that is the doorway in this case.
I would suggest Cryn as a foreground item so you can move the portcullis up and down behind it and you
could make your portcullises fancy or as plain as you like is entirely up to you and whether or not
you use colour thats also up to you at this point.
I'm probably going to do a silhouette to begin with.
And of course once you've got the silhouette working and you're aware of what it is and what it's doing
then adding the extra bits like colour and fancy bits around the edge whether it's spikes or anything
else that is secondary to the main action.
And then we're going to go ahead and make two animations.
The first animation I want you to make it descend slowly and smoothly as if you've got a short time
it's coming down you got to get through it so it's one of those sort of timed events in the game where
you've got to get there but it's not going to slam down you.
And that leads us on to the second animation I'd like you to show me that Paul Collier slamming down
into the ground now thinking about it.
There is an option here to squash and stretch to exaggerate the slamming down of the portcullis.
And finally of course I'd love you to share your work over in the discussions.
So that is your challenge spec you may have noticed there's not a size or a time or frames per second.
I'm going to leave this up to you this time to decide how large it is.
I would suggest staying small with your resolution and also how long the animation is as well.
I'd still keep it under five seconds but otherwise you're free to choose those specifications and we'll
go for the solution to this challenge in the next lecture.